# Genome Assembly
## Sai Manoj Tekumalla

# Methods
## Retrieving the Rhodobacter spheroides from Sequence Read Archive (SRA): Also called as Short Read Archive is a repository for short reads generated by sequencing. SRA is established by National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI). It basically stores the raw sequence from NGS technology. Genomic reads for Rhodobacter spheroides is used for this model. Short reads stored in Sequence Read Archive is used and to retrieve this, fastq-dump command is used. The format in which the data is retrieved is fastq.

## Trimming the retrieved data: The reads generated can be trimmed using trimmomatic. Trimmomatic is a java program which can be used in this case to trim all the reads generated by the previous program. In the program trim.sh, path of the reads is given which contains the un-trimmed fastq files. It is specified in the program to output the paired and unpaired reads to the respective directories.

## Assembly of the reads using SPAdes Assembler: De Bruijn graph assembler, SPAdes is used for this purpose in this module. SPAdes- St. Petersburg genome assembler is an assembly toolkit. This assembler takes in the paired-end and mate-pair libraries to assemble. It assembles genomes into contigs and scaffolds. The output folder is specified as Rhodo in this program. Rhodo would contain scaffolds and contigs, spades assembly graphs, etc.

## Generate summary statistics using QUAST: QUAST is a genome assembly evaluation tool that evaluates the genome assemblies[2]. In this module, this is used to generate N50, maximum contig length, GC %. quast.py is called by specifying it in the shell scrip thats written, the output is written to quast_output. report.txt has all the statistics of the contigs based on the size specified.

# Conclusions from Analysis:
## The scaffolds in this module have higher N50 when compared to the broken scaffolds. The reason for a higher N50 in this case is because the fasta file is split into continuous fragments to generate the broken scaffolds[3]. And the N50 covers more than 50% of the genome assembly.
### GC_content_plot: Depicts the GC content, non-overlapping windows of 100bp on Y-axis and its GC content on X-axis.
### Nx_plot.pdf: Shows the changes of Nx metric value in dependence of x value. The y-axis is the Nx value and x-axis is the x-value. Depicts the contig lengths, scaffold_broken has lower contig lengths than scaffolds.
### cumulative_plot.pdf: Shows the growth rate of assemblies. The y-axis is the size of assembly and x-axis is the number of contigs in the assembly. For the cumulative length(aligned contigs). Depicts the cintig index which is same for both scaffolds and scaffolds_broken. Index increases as contig length increases.
### coverage_histogram.pdf: A plot with read coverage depths on X-axis and contig lengths on Y-axis which depicts the distribution of the read coverage depths.

# Future Directions:
## Firstly, extraction of the transcripts from GFF file can be done using a tool[1]. A program to take in numerous trancripts, compares them with the reference annotation to monitor the structurally equivalent transcripts and then to categorize them as per their relationship to the reference. GffCompare is used for this purpose. Parser during this process must keep the parsed data in the memory until the entire file is parsed since GFF format doesn't group/sort basis the hierarchy of the linked genomic features. GffRead if provided with a genome sequence, will generate additional sequence data files in FASTA format which include concatenated exon sequences (transcript sequences), translated sequences of coding regions, protein-coding sequences, etc. These tools, GffRead & GffCompare are already in use for the genome annotation, novel gene discovery, etc.  

# Citations:
### [1] http://ccb.jhu.edu/software/stringtie/gff.shtml
### [2] ablab/quast: Genome assembly evaluation tool
###     Ablab
###     https://github.com/ablab/quast
### [3] Genomes vs genNNNes: the difference between contigs and scaffolds in genome assemblies
###     https://www.pacb.com/blog/genomes-vs-gennnnes-difference-contigs-scaffolds-genome-assemblies/



